---
layout: default
---
### Study Guide: PA010 Introduction to Linux 
*LPI.org content  - CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. - Internal use only. No distribution
---

### 1.1 Linux Evolution and Popular Operating Systems
<details>
<summary>Linux was initially developed by...</summary>
Linus Torvalds.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Development goal was...</summary>
Unix-like operating system for office computers.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Does Linux contain Unix code?</summary>
No.
</details>

#### 1.1.1 Distributions

<details>
<summary>Linux distributions consists of...</summary>
a Linux kernel and a selection of applications that
are maintained by a company or user community.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Distribution families include...</summary>
Debian<br>
Ubuntu<br>
Red Hat 
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Debian GNU/Linux distribution promotes...</summary>
a vision of an operating system that respects
the freedoms of the user to run, study, distribute and improve the software.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Ubuntu's mission is...</summary>
to bring an easy to use Linux desktop
environment.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Red Hat aim to...</summary>
ease the use of Linux in professional server environments. Some of its components
require fee-based subscriptions or licenses.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The CentOS project is based on the ____ distribution, but is available completely
free of charge </summary>
Red Hat
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and CentOS are optimized for ____ while Fedora is aimed at _____.</summary>
server environments<br>
desktop computers
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Kali Linux is used for...</summary>
exploiting software vulnerabilities and penetration testing.
</details>
<br>

#### 1.1.2 Embedded Systems

<details>
<summary>titleEmbedded systems are...</summary>
a combination of computer hardware and software designed to have a
specific function within a larger system.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The major advantages of Linux over any proprietary embedded software include...</summary>
cross vendor platform compatibility<br>
development<br>
support<br>
no license fees.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Two of the most popular embedded software projects are...</summary>
Android<br>
Raspian (now called Raspberry Pi OS)
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Android is a modified version of the Linux kernel with additional open source
software designed to work on...</summary>
touchscreen devices<br>
TVs<br>
wrist watches<br>
game consoles<br>
digital cameras<br>
PCs
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The advantages of embedded development with Android include...</summary>
an intuitive and easy to use with a graphical user interface<br>
a very wide developer community<br>
it is also supported by the majority of the hardware vendors with an Android driver
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Raspberry Pi is </summary>
a low cost, credit-card sized computer<br>
a fully-functional desktop computer
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>A Raspberry can be attached t0 electronic devices and extension boards using...</summary>
a set of General Purpose Input-Output (GPIO) pins 
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The Raspberry Pi uses an ____ processor.</summary>
ARM - Advanced RISC Machines (RISC = reduced instruction set computer)
</details>
<br>

#### 1.1.3 Linux and the Cloud

<details>
<summary>Linux runs in the Cloud! Public cloud providers include...</summary>
Amazon Web Services (AWS)<br>
Google Cloud Platform (GCP)<br>
Microsoft (Azure)
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Linux is usually offered in the Clous as an IaaS, meaning...</summary>
Infrastructure as a Service where new virtual machines which are provisioned within minutes. (elastic!)
</details>
<br>

### 1.1 SUMMARY

<details>
<summary>How is Debian GNU/Linux different from Ubuntu? Name two aspects.</summary>
Ubuntu is based on a snapshot of Debian, therefore there are many similarities between them.
However, there are still significant differences between them. The first one would be the
applicability for beginners. Ubuntu is recommended for beginners because of its ease of use
and on the other hand Debian is recommended for more advanced users. The major difference
is the complexity of the user configuration that Ubuntu doesn’t require during the installation
process.
Another difference would be the stability of each distribution. Debian is considered to be more
stable compared to Ubuntu. This is because Debian receives fewer updates that are tested in
detail and the entire operating system is more stable. On the other hand, Ubuntu enables the
user to use the latest releases of software and all the new technologies.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>What are the most common environments/platforms Linux is used for? Name three different
environments/platforms and name one distribution you can use for each.</summary>
A few of the common environments/platforms would be smartphone, desktop and server. On
smartphones, it can be used by distributions such as Android. On desktop and server, it can be
used by any distribution that is mostly suitable with the functionality of that machine, from
Debian, Ubuntu to CentOS and Red Hat Enterprise Linux.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>You are planning to install a Linux distribution in a new environment. Name four things that
you should consider when choosing a distribution.</summary>
When choosing a distribution, a few of the main things that should be considered is cost,
performance, scalability, how stable it is and the hardware demand of the system.
4. Name three devices that the Android OS runs on, other than smartphones.
Other devices that Android runs on are smart TVs, tablet computers, Android Auto and
smartwatches.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Explain three major advantages of cloud computing.</summary>
The major advantages of cloud computing are flexibility, easy to recover and low use cost.
Cloud based services are easy to implement and scale, depending on the business
requirements. It has a major advantage in backup and recovery solutions, as it enables
businesses to recover from incidents faster and with less repercussions. Furthermore, it
reduces operation costs, as it allows to pay just for the resources that a business uses, on a
subscription-based model.
</details>
<br>
