---
layout: default
---
### Study Guide: PA010 Introduction to Linux 
##### *LPI.org content  - CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. - Internal use only. No distribution*
---

[<-- Back](./)

### 1.2  Major Open Source Applications

#### 1.2.1 Software Packages

<details>
<summary>a distribution has a package repository with a vast collection of
applications available to install through its </summary>
package manager
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Debian, Ubuntu and Linux Mint use the ____, ____, and ____ tools to install software packages, generally referred as ____ packages</summary>
dpkg, apt-get and apt <br>
DEB
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Red Hat, Fedora and CentOS distros use the ___, ___, and ___ commands, which install ____ packages.
</summary>
rpm, yum and dnf<br>
RPM
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>DEB packages are normally installed using ___ or ___ package managers which download new packages and their dependencies, and checks for newer
versions of the installed packages.
</summary>
yum or dnf
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>RPM packages are normally installed using ___ or ___ package managers which download new packages and their dependencies, and checks for newer
versions of the installed packages.</summary>
detail
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.2  Package Installation

<details>
<summary>The command to install Gimp in Debian-based Linux is </summary>
sudo apt-get install gimp<br>
or<br>
sudo apt install gimp
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The command to install Gimp in Red Hat-based Linux is </summary>
sudo yum install gimp
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.3  Package Removal

<details>
<summary>The command to remove Gimp in Debian-based Linux is </summary>
sudo apt-get remove gimp<br>
or<br>
sudo apt remove gimp
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The command to install Gimp in Red Hat-based Linux is </summary>
sudo yum remove gimp
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.4 Office Applications

<details>
<summary>The two main office suites are...</summary>
Apache OpenOffice - Apache Foundation project based on OpenOffice (OpenOffice.org) and StarOffice(Sun Microsystems)<br>
LibreOffice by the Document Foundation
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The preferred document format is the ____, a fully open and ISO standardized file format.</summary>
Open Document Format (ODF)
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The text editor application provided by OpenOffice/LibreOffice is named...</summary>
Writer
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The spreadsheet application provided by OpenOffice/LibreOffice is named...</summary>
Calc
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The presentation application provided by OpenOffice/LibreOffice is named...</summary>
Impress
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The vector drawing application provided by OpenOffice/LibreOffice is named...</summary>
Draw
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The math formula application provided by OpenOffice/LibreOffice is named...</summary>
Math
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The database application provided by OpenOffice/LibreOffice is named...</summary>
Base
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Due to licensing , and a more active community of developers, most distributions adopt ___ as their
default office suite.
</summary>
LibreOffice
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.5 Web Browsers

<details>
<summary>The main web browsers in the Linux environment are ____ and ____.</summary>
Google Chrome<br>
Mozilla Firefox
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Google's open source browser is named...</summary>
Chromium
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Firefox is a browser whose origins are linked to ____ , the first popular web browser to adopt the open source
model. </summary>
Netscape
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Mozilla also develops an e-mail client named ____ that offers more features than webmail and integrates with other desktop applications.
</summary>
Thunderbird
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.6 Multimedia

<details>
<summary>Desktop applications are still the best option for the creation of multimedia content. Name several popular multimedia apps.</summary>
Blender<br>
GIMP<br>
Inkscape<br>
Audacity<br>
ImageMagic<br>
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The most popular application
for video playback is...</summary>
VLC
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.7 Server Programs

<details>
<summary>Local music playback options include...</summary>
Audacious<br>
Banshee<br>
Amarokle<br>
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The computer running the web browser is
called the ____ and the remote computer is called the ____.</summary>
client<br>
server
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Web pages are deployed by web servers using the ____ protocol.
</summary>
HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol)
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Two of The most popular web servers are...
</summary>
Apache and Nginx.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>An HTTP web server accepts requests from the browser and sends content back as an ___ document.</summary>
HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language)
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>A common scripting language on the server side of an HTML response is ____ while ______ is the scripting language used on the client (web browser).</summary>
PHP<br>
JavaScript
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The JavaScript and the Java programming languages are related.</summary>
FALSE!!!
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>A dynamic page request usually queries a ____ to collect all the required pieces of information</summary>
database
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>A ____ _____ is the most common data storage where data is organized in predefined tables.</summary>
relational database
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The most popular open source relational databases are  and PostgreSQL.</summary>
MariaDB (MySQL)<br>
PostgreSQL
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>MySQL is pronounced _____ while Microsoft SQL Server is pronounced ______</summary>
"My Ess Que Ell"<br>
"Microsoft Sequel Server"
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.8 Data Sharing

<details>
<summary>
A ____ ___ is a simple/low-performance computer that is optimized for remote connections to the server where resources are stored.</summary>
thin client
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is a common software service that implements a protocol for sharing files and printers over the network.</summary>
Samba
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Authorization is granted by a central server, called the ____ ____, which manages the access to various local and remote
resources. </summary>
domain controller
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Between Linux machines, ___ is often used to share file systems in the network.</summary>
NFS (Network File System)
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>In a Microsoft environment, the domain controller service is provided by Microsoft’s ____ ____.</summary>
Active Directory
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>In a Linux environment, the domain controller service is provided by ____ </summary>
Samba
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.9 Network Administration

<details>
<summary>____ is responsible for assigning an IP address to the host when a network cable is connected or
when the device enters a wireless network.</summary>
DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol)
</details>
<br>


<details>
<summary>The ___ translates a domain name into the IP address for an associated device in an IP network.</summary>
DNS server (Domain Name System)
</details>
<br>


<details>
<summary>By configuring your network _____, you can restrict the IP assignment only to known devices, associate a fixed IP address to specific machines, or change the default DNS server provided by your ISP. </summary>
router
</details>
<br>

#### 1.2.10 Programming Languages (This section expanded by KEK)

<details>
<summary>As a programmer, you create a text file representing your coding solution. This file or group of files is referred to as ____ ____</summary>
source code
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The computer processor can only execute instructions loaded as binary codes. A ____ converts your source code into this executable format.</summary>
compiler
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ _____ do not use a compiler, but rather read your source code, interprets, and then executes each time the program is run. This makes code development faster but the final solution runs much slower.</summary>
Interpreted languages
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is a programming language mostly used in on the client when rendering web pages but can be used to create more complex applications for servers and mobile devices. It has a reputation for being one of the worst programming languages in existence due to loose data typing and poor structure.</summary>
JavaScript
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is a super set of JavaScript and is best for big applications due to improved reliability and implementation explicit data typing.</summary>
TypeScript
</details>
<br>


<details>
<summary>The ____ programming language is closely related with operating systems, particularly Unix, but it
is used to write any kind of program to almost any kind of device. It is fast and flexible but must be compiled for each target environment. </summary>
C
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The ____ programming language is an iteration of C programming language, extended to support Object Oriented Programming (OOP). </summary>
C++
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The main aspect of ____ is that programs written in this language are portable, which means
that the same program can be executed in different operating systems. A JRE runtime service must be installed on the target computer.</summary>
Java
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The ___ programming language is central to Microsoft's solution stack and is similar to Java in that a runtime service must be installed. Microsoft's cross-platform, developer platform is .NET.</summary>
C#
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____is a programming language most used to process text content. It has a strong regular
expressions emphasis,</summary>
Perl 
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ ____, known as scripts, can automate complex or repetitive tasks on the command line environment.</summary>
Shell programs
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is a interpreted programming language popular among students and professionals not directly involved with computer science. (most popular language according to TIOBE Index.)</summary>
Python
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary> ____ is most used as a server side scripting language for generating  dynamic content for the web.</summary>
PHP
</details>
<br>


<details>
<summary>___ and ___ are compiled languages creating machine code that execute directly on the given processor.</summary>
C, C++
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>___ and ___ are compiled to bytecode that requires the framework (JRE or .NET) to be installed on the target environment.</summary>
Java, C#
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Name at least two interpreted programming languages.</summary>
JavaScript<br>
Python<br>
PHP<br>
Shell script<br>
Perl 
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The term ____ comes from the combination of a Linux operating system, an Apache HTTP server, a MySQL (or MariaDB) database and PHP programming.</summary>
LAMP
</details>
<br>

### 1.2 SUMMARY

<details>
<summary>dpkg - is this associated with the Debian packaging system or the Red Hat packaging system?
</summary>
Debian packaging system
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>rpm - is this associated with the Debian packaging system or the Red Hat packaging system?
</summary>
Red Hat packaging system
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>apt-get - is this associated with the Debian packaging system or the Red Hat packaging system?
</summary>
Debian packaging system
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>yum - is this associated with the Debian packaging system or the Red Hat packaging system?
</summary>
Red Hat packaging system
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>dnf - is this associated with the Debian packaging system or the Red Hat packaging system?
</summary>
Red Hat packaging system</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Which command could be used to install Blender on Ubuntu? After installation, how can the
program be executed?
</summary>
sudo apt-get install blender
The program can be executed directly from the terminal with the command *blender*
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Which application from the LibreOffice suite can be used to work with electronic
spreadsheets?
</summary>
Calc
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Which open-source web browser is used as the basis for the development of Google Chrome?
</summary>
Chromium
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>SVG is an open standard for vector graphics. Which is the most popular application for editing
SVG files in Linux systems?</summary>
Inkscape
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The following png file format is associated to the ____ application.
</summary>
Gimp
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The following doc file format is associated to the ____ application.
</summary>
LibreOffice Writer
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The following xls file format is associated to the ____ application.
</summary>
LibreOffice Calc
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The following ppt file format is associated to the ____ application.
</summary>
LibreOffice Impress
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The following wav file format is associated to the ____ application.
</summary>
Audacity
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Which software package allows file sharing between Linux and Windows machines over the
local network?</summary>
Samba
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>You know that configuration files are kept even if the associated package is removed from the
system. How could you automatically remove the package named cups and its configuration
files from a DEB based system?</summary>
apt-get purge cups
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Suppose you have many TIFF image files and want to convert them to JPEG. Which software
package could be used to convert those files directly at the command line?</summary>
ImageMagick
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Which software package do you need to install in order to be able to open Microsoft Word
documents sent to you by a Windows user?</summary>
LibreOffice or OpenOffice
</details>
<br>

[<-- Back](./)
