---
layout: default
---
### Study Guide: PA010 Introduction to Linux 
##### *LPI.org content  - CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. - Internal use only. No distribution*
---

[<-- Back](./)

### 1.4 ICT Skills and Working in Linux

#### 1.4.1 Linux User Interfaces
<details>
<summary>The ____ is still considered a powerful tool used each and every day by advanced users. 
</summary>
command line
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Basically,  there  are  two  major  desktop  environments  in  the  Linux  world: ____ and ____ . 
</summary>
Gnome, KDE
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____  tries  to  follow  the  KISS  (“keep  it  simple
stupid”)  principle,  with  very  streamlined  and  clean  applications.  
</summary>
Gnome
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>On  the  other  hand,  ____  has another perspective with a larger selection of applications and giving the user the opportunity to change every configuration setting in the environment
</summary>
KDE
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ applications are based on the GTK toolkit (written in the C language),tion
</summary>
Gnome
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ applications  make  use  of  the  Qt  library  (written  in  C++)
</summary>
KDE
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The most important applications for most of us is the graphical terminal ____. Those applications display in  a  graphical  environment  the  old  style  serial
terminals.
</summary>
emulator
</details>
<br>


<details>
<summary>In Gnome, the terminal app is called ____.
</summary>
Gnome Terminal
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>In KDE the terminal app is called ____.
</summary>
Konsole
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Another common terminal app is ____.
</summary>
Xterm
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>: ____ is  a  typesetting system  largely  used  for  writing  scientific  documents  at  the  academy,  specially  for  its  capacity  to handle complex math symbols, which other softwares have difficulty to deal with.
</summary>
LaTeX
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is a  LaTeX  class  that  can  create  slide  presentations  from  LaTeX  code.
</summary>
Beamer
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary> If you can write HTML and CSS, then ____ will bring most of the JavaScript necessary to create pretty and interactive presentations that will adapt well on any resolution and screen size.
</summary>
Reveal.js
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>If  you  want  a  replacement  for  Microsoft  Project,  you  can  try ____  or  ____. Both are very similar to their proprietary counterpart and compatible with Project files.
</summary>
GanttProject<br> 
ProjectLibre</details>
<br>

#### 1.4.2 Industry Uses of Linux

<details>
<summary>A  significant portion of Linux systems nowadays run in the cloud, either on a IaaS (____ ____ ____ ____), PaaS (____ ____ ____ ____) or SaaS (____ ____ ____ ____) model.
</summary>
Infrastructure as a service<br>
Platform as a Service<br>
Software as a Service
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>IaaS is a way to share the resources of a large server by offering them access to virtual machines
that  are,  in  fact,  multiple  operating  systems  running  as  guests  on  a  host  machine  over  an
important piece of software that is called a hypervisor.
</summary>
answer
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Running guest OSs on a host machine that manages resources available is called ____.
</summary>
virtualization
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Linux  has  three  well  know  open  source  hypervisors: ____, ____, and ____.  
</summary>
Xen<br>
KVM<br>
VirtualBox.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>In ____ instead of a virtual machine, the users have access to a platform where it will be possible
to  deploy  and  run  their  application.  The  goal  here  is  to  ease  the  burden  of  dealing  with  system
administration  tasks  and  operating  systems  updates. 
</summary>
PaaS
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary> ____ is  a  common  PaaS  example  where
program  code  can  just  be  run  without  taking  care  of  the  underlying  containers  and  virtual
machines.
</summary>
Heroku
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is the model where you usually pay for a subscription in order to just use a software
without  worrying  about  anything  else.  Dropbox  and  Salesforce  are  two  good  examples. 
</summary>
SaaS
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>A  project  like  ____ is  a  collection  of  open  source  software  that  can  make  use  of  different
hypervisors  and  other  tools  in  order  to  offer  a  complete  IaaS  cloud  environment  on  premise,
</summary>
OpenStack 
</details>
<br>

#### 1.4.3 Privacy Issues when using the Internet

<details>
<summary>You search for a product online and then note that you start seeing ads of the same product as you browse other webpages. This behavior is due to ____.
</summary>
cookie tracking
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>You return to am e-commerce website and a product that you selected earlier is still showing in your shopping cart. This behavior is due to ____.
</summary>
cookie tracking
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary> ____ are  companies  that  offer  ads  for  e-
commerce  sites  like  the  one  in  our  example  on  one  side,  and  monetization  for  websites,  on  the other side. 
</summary>
Ad networks
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>One  way  you  can  get  rid  of  ad tracking is  by  not  allowing  ____ ____ websites  to  store  cookies  on  your
browser. 
</summary>
third  party 
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is a way for you to tell the websites you visit that you do not want them to track you. But, in fact, they are the ones who will decide if they will respect your choice or not.
</summary>
Do Not Track (DNT)
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>When  you  close  a  browser window in ____ mode,  the  browser  will
automatically delete all the data generated by that session, leaving no trace on the computer used. This means that no personal data, like history, passwords or cookies are stored on that computer.
</summary>
private
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Whenever  you  use  a  public
accessible  computer,  be  aware  that  other  security  threats  such  as ____ or ____   might
exist.
</summary>
malware<br>
key  loggers
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary> One  of  the  most  secure  approaches  available for securing sites is using a password manager, a piece of software that will  essentially  store  all  your  passwords  and  usernames  in  an  encrypted  format  which  can  be decrypted by a master password. 
</summary>
password manager
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is one of the most famous and feature rich open source password managers available. It
will store your passwords in an encrypted file within your file system. 
</summary>
KeePass
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ is another open source solution that has a similar approach but instead of storing your data  in  a  file,  it  will  make  use  of  a  cloud  server.
</summary>
Bitwarden
</details>
<br>

#### 1.4.4 Encryption


<details>
<summary>____ is a protocol to offer security over network connections by making
use  of  cryptography.  TLS  is  the  successor  of  the  ____ which  has  been
deprecated because of serious flaws. 
</summary>
Transport Layer Security (TLS)<br>
Secure  Sockets  Layer  (SSL) 
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>TLS is what is used on the ____  protocol in order to make it  possible to send
sensitive data (like your credit card number) through the web.  
</summary>
HTTPS
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____  can  be  used  to  sign,  encrypt,  and  decrypt  texts,  e-mails,  files,  directories,  and  even  whole disk  partitions.
</summary>
GnuPG
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Public-key cryptography uses your ____ key to encrypt data which only your ____ key will be able to decrypt.
</summary>
public<br>
private
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>There are basic two methods available: ____ and
_________ encryption.
</summary>
stacked<br>
block device 
</details>
<br>


### 1.4 Summary


<details>
<summary>You should use a “private window” in your browser if you want:
To browse completely anonymous on the Internet<br>
To leave no trace on the computer you’re using<br>
To activate TLS to avoid cookie tracking<br>
In order to use DNT<br>
To use cryptography during data transmission<br>
</summary>
To leave no trace on the computer you’re using X<br>
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>What is OpenStack?
A project that allows the creation of private IaaS<br>
A project that allows the creation of PaaS<br>
A project that allows the creation of SaaS<br>
A hypervisor<br>
An open source password manager<br>
</summary>
A project that allows the creation of private IaaS X<br>
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Which of the below options are valid disk encryption softwares?
RevealJS, EncFS and dm-crypt<br>
dm-crypt and KeePass<br>
EncFS and Bitwarden<br>
EncFS and dm-crypt<br>
TLS and dm-crypt<br>
</summary>
EncFS and dm-crypt X<br>
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Select true or false for dm-crypt device encryption:
Files are encrypted before being written to the disk <br>
The entire filesystem is an encrypted blob  <br>
Only files and directories are encrypted, not symlinks <br>
Don’t require root access <br>
Is a block device encryption <br>
</summary>
Files are encrypted before being written to the disk  T<br>
The entire filesystem is an encrypted blob  T<br>
Only files and directories are encrypted, not symlinks  F<br>
Don’t require root access  F<br>
Is a block device encryption  T<br>
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Beamer is:
An encryption mechanism<br>
A hypervisor<br>
A virtualization software<br>
An OpenStack component<br>
A LaTeX presentation tool<br> 
</summary>
A LaTeX presentation tool <strong>X</strong><br>
</details>
<br>

[<-- Back](./)
