---
layout: default
---
### Study Guide: PA010 Introduction to Linux 
##### *LPI.org content  - CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. - Internal use only. No distribution*
---

[<-- Back](./)

### 2.2 Variables

#### 2.2.1 Variables
<details>
<summary>In most Linux shells, there are two types of variables:____ and ____
</summary>
Local variables<br>
Environment variables
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ variables are available to the current shell process only.
</summary>
Local
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>____ variables  are  available  both  in  a  specific  shell  session  and  in  sub  processes  spawned from  that  shell  session.  Theses  variables  can  be  used  to  pass  configuration  data  to  commands which are run.
</summary>
Environment
</details>
<br>

#### 2.2.2 Manipulating Variables

<details>
<summary>Given the following command<br>
greeting=hello<br>
'greeting' is the ____.
</summary>
variable name
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Given the following command<br>
greeting=hello<br>
'hello' is the ____
</summary>
variable's value
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>True or False: This variable assignment command
greeting=hello<br>
is the same as this<br>
greeting = hello<br>
</summary>
False - Don’t put any space before or after the = operator
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Given the following command<br>
greeting=hello<br>
This command will display the text ____.<br>
echo greeting<br> 
</summary>
greeting
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Given the following command<br>
greeting=hello<br>
This command will display the text ____.<br>
echo $greeting<br> 
</summary>
hello
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>In order to remove a variable, you will need to use the command ____.
</summary>
unset
</details>
<br>



<details>
<summary>What is the purposes of the following.<br>
$ greeting=hello<br>
$ export greeting<br>
</summary>
The makes  the greeting variable  available  to  subprocesses by turning it  from  a  local  into  an  environment  variable.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Consider the following command.<br>
$ TZ=EST date<br>
The TZ in this command is an ____.
</summary>
environment variable
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Consider the following command.<br>
$ TZ=EST date<br>
The EST in this command is ____.
</summary>
The value (eastern standard time) that is assigned to the TZ environment variable
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Consider the following command.<br>
$ TZ=EST date<br>
The date in this command is ____.
</summary>
The date command that uses the TZ environment variable when displaying the time.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>The ____ variable in a Linux system. It stores
a list of directories, separated by a colon, that contain executable programs eligible as commands from the Linux shell.
</summary>
PATH
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>What command will append the directory /home/user/temp to the PATH?
</summary>
PATH=$PATH:/home/user/temp
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>To  find  out  how  the  shell  invokes  a  specific  command,  the ____ command  can  be  run  with  the  command’s name as argument.
</summary>
which (example:which nano)
</details>
<br>

### 2.2 Summary

<details>
<summary>Create a local variable number.
</summary>
$ number=5
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Create an environment variable ORDER, using one of the two above methods.
</summary>
$ ORDER=desc
$ export ORDER
or
$ export ORDER=desc
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>Display both the variable names and their contents.
</summary>
$ echo number<br>
$ echo $number<br>
$ echo ORDER<br>
$ echo $ORDER<br>
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>What are the scope of the number variable?
</summary>
The scope of the local variable number is the current shell only.
</details>
<br>

<details>
<summary>What are the scope of the ORDER variable?
</summary>
The  scope  of  the  environment  variable  ORDER  is  the  current  shell  and  all  the  subshells generated by it.
</details>
<br>

[<-- Back](./)
